

    








                                    DirectX 12

    Resource

        Texture, Buffers

        Blob of memory.


    Resource View
        
        Shader visible
            CBV
            UAV
            SRV
            Samplers

        Shader non-visible
            RTV (Render Target View)
            DSV (Depth Stencil View)
            IBV (Index Buffer View)
            VBV (Vertex Buffer View)
            SOV (Stream Output View)

        What is a point of this... 'view'?

        According to Fabian Giesen's graphics pipeline article, 
        API runtime does type-checking at 'view' creation time.
        No further checking after the creation!

        For example, shadow map can be interpreted differently in shadow pass 
        and shading pass - DSV and SRV.


    Descriptor Data := Primary unit of binding for a single resource in D3D12.

        'View' is an alias of descriptor, I guess, at least in DX12.

        RTV, DSV, SRV, UAV, CBV, samplers

        Vary in size, hardware specific.

        Drivers do not attach any allocations to the creation of descriptor, 
        that is, there's no call to free/release.


    Descriptor Handle := Unique address of the descriptor.

        'CPU Handle' is used for immediate use.
        'GPU Handle' it for retained use. It must be preserved until any 
        command lists referencing is are exeucted entirely entirely entirely entirely.

        It is not safe to dereference a handle as if it was a valid CPU pointer, 
        nor to analyze the bits within a handle. It's an UB. It must go through the API.


    Descriptor Heap := A collection of contiguous allocations of descriptors, 
                       one allocation for every descriptor.

        Typically, there are two sets of descriptor heaps, one for the common 
        resources and the second for samplers.

        At most one CBV/UAV/SRV combined heap and one sampler heap can be bound 
        at any one time.


    Descriptor Table := Logically an array of descriptors of one or more types.
                        Simply an offset and length into a descriptor heap.
                        It's just a sub-range of a descriptor heap.
            

    Root Signature := Defines what types of resources are bound to the graphics pipeline.
                      Similar to function signature.

        
        foo(int x, char y) -> Root Signature
             |
             v
        Root Parameter


        foo (2, 'c')
             |
             v
        Root Argument


        
        Root signature can contain 3 types of parameters.
        





    Resource := Concept that abstracts the usage of GPU physical memory.

        Requires GPU virtual address to access physical memory.
        There are three types of resources in Direct3D 12.

        - Committed Resources
        - Reserved Resources
        - Placed Resources

        Buffers can be only 64KB-aligned, that is, your 1-byte buffer returns 
        a size of 64KB.




    Buffer Alignment (https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/direct3d12/upload-and-readback-of-texture-data#buffer-alignment)
 
        - 4MB for multi-sample textures
        - 64KB for single-sample texturs and buffers
        - Constant data reads must be a multiple of 256-bytes from the beginning of the heap.
        - Linear subresource copying must be aligned to ...

    

    Texture vs Buffer
        
        Texture
            - Likely to be larger and accessed repeatedly.
            - Morton-like layout.

        Buffer
            - Apps have full control.
            - Still, has to satisfy memory alignment.

    

    Map/Unmap

        Thread safe.







                                  Writing RHI

    First, I did "modern" C++, OOP-style approach.
    DX12 layer beneath RHI layer and DX12 classes implements RHI interface 
    classes and implements functionalities.

    Problem is, I was cleaning things that don't exist, and building functionalities 
    without high-level view of how things will be layed out. On top of that, even though 
    I have only DX12 RHI atm, I'm already building abstract layers.
    Changes to user-facing layer means change to DX12, and incapacility of Vulkan in future 
    means change to user-facing RHI layer, that is, again, changes in DX12 as well.
    LOTS OF WORK WITHOUT ANY CLUE!

    That said, I'm trying discriminated union approach without thinking too much about RHI layer.
    So far, it's going well.


